# VECM-Model-to-analyze-Bitcoin-Growth

**5.2.1.** Bitcoin Price The studies has provided many determinants of bitcoin price, however, the research of bitcoin pricing is rather fragmented (Peng et al., 2023). Since the Bitcoin market does not have the liquidity or size of established markets like the S&P 500, the speculative traders can have a profound influence over the market. The quantity theory of money associated from the Fishers equation of exchange: MV=PT In the Fisher equation, M is nominal supply of money, V is the volume of money in circulation, P is the general price and T is the total size of the economy (Persons, 1911). If this equation is applied to Bitcoin, the equilibrium price of bitcoin could be represented as PB=Pm/c, where PB is the price of bitcoin, P is general price level, m as the total market cap indicating the whole bitcoin economy and c as the circulating supply of bitcoin. It can be argued that the chosen variables are not the only factors that are driving the price of bitcoin. Along with the macroeconomic factors, there are factors like demand and supply push and pull along with the sentimental effects of buying and selling from the retailers and long-term investors that can cause long term and short-term fluctuations in the market 

**5.2.2.** Consumer Price Index (CPI) CPI has been used as proxy for inflation rate, which directly effects the purchasing power of the investors and retailers as rising inflation signals economic instability which leads to investors finding a substitute to hedge against the US dollar 

**5.2.3.** Fed Rates Fed Rates have been used as a proxy for interest rates which directly influences the flow of capital into different assets classes. The reduction in fed rates results in lower borrowing costs for investors, which can result in increased liquidity in the market. 

**5.2.4.** Google Trends and Active Addresses Google trends and number of active addresses have been used as been used a proxy of public interest in market as they capture the shift in engagement and attention on Bitcoin. Google trend captures how often people search the word Bitcoin and words related to bitcoin over time. The spike in search correlates with the periods of rising public interest or curiosity on bitcoin, especially during the time bitcoin is making higher highs in the prices. The number of active addresses indicates the unique addresses involved in transactions over a period. Increase in active addresses indicates growing network, userbase and adoption of bitcoin which is essential for long term sustainability of the bitcoin and decrease price volatility as increase in adoption with results in increased market liquidity. 

**5.2.5.** Stock-Flow Ratio: Stock flow Ratio has been used as a proxy to measure scarcity of bitcoin. Stock to flow models is very well-known valuation measures for scarce commodities and is a familiar bitcoin pricing model also known as “Plan B stock to flow model” which suggests that bitcoin price is a function of its total stock at any point in time over bitcoin newly minted supply over the next year.
